.TH CTIME 3
.SH NAME
asctime, ctime, gmtime, localtime, mktime - transform date and time to
broken-down time
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <time.h>

.nf
char *asctime(const struct tm *tm);
char *ctime(const time_t *timep);
struct tm *gmtime(const time_t *timep);
struct tm *localtime(const time_t *timep);
time_t mktime(struct tm *tm);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ctime ,
.B gmtime
and
.B localtime
functions all take an argument of data type
.BR time_t ,
which represents calendar time.

The
.B asctime
and
.B mktime
functions both takes an argument representing broken-down time,
which is a representation separated into year, month, day and so on.

Broken-down time is stored in the struct tm.

The call
.B ctime(t)
is equivalent to
.BR asctime(localtime(t)) .
It converts the calendar time
.I t
into a null-terminated string of the form:

	"Wed Jun 30 21:49:08 1993\\n\\0"

In C locale, the abbreviations for the days of the week are
"Sun", "Mon", "Tue", "Wed", "Thu", "Fri", and "Sat";
the abbreviations for the months are "Jan", "Feb", "Mar", "Apr",
"May", "Jun", "Jul", "Aug", "Sep", "Oct", "Nov", and "Dec".

The
.B gmtime
function converts the calendar time
.I timep
into broken-down time representation, expressed as
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
It may return NULL if the specified time cannot be converted to UTC.

The
.B localtime
function converts the calendar time
.I timep
to broken-down time representation,
expressed relative to the user's specified timezone.

The
.B asctime
function converts the broken-down time value
.I tm
into a null-terminated string with the same format as
.B ctime
function.

The
.B mktime
function converts a broken-down time structure,
expressed as local time, to calendar time representation.
The function ignores
the values supplied by the caller in the
.B tm_wday
and
.B tm_yday
fields and the original values of other fields
are not restricted to the ranges indicated above.
On successful completion, the values of
.B tm_wday
and
.B tm_yday
are set appropriately and the other components are set to represent
the specified calendar time within their respective ranges.
The final value of
.B tm_mday
is not set until
.B tm_mon
and
.B tm_year
are determined.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.B gmtime
and
.B localtime
functions return a pointer to a struct tm.

On success,
.B asctime
and
.B ctime
functions return a pointer to a string.

On success,
.B mktime
function returns the calendar time, expressed as a value of type
.BR time_t .

On error,
.B mktime
function returns the value
.BR (time_t)-1 .
The remaining functions return NULL on error.
On error,
.B errno
is set to indicate the cause of the error.
.SH STANDARDS
.nf
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 7.23.2.3 Paragraph 1,2,3
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 7.23.3.1 Paragraph 1,2,3
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 7.23.3.2 Paragraph 1,2,3
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 7.23.3.3 Paragraph 1,2,3
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 7.23.3.4 Paragraph 1,2,3
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR time.h (3)
