.TH locale.h 3
.SH NAME
locale.h - category macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <locale.h>

The locale.h header declares the following functions:

.nf
char *setlocale(int category, const char *locale);
struct lconv *localeconv(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The locale.h header defines the following macros:

.nf
LC_ALL
LC_COLLATE
LC_CTYPE
LC_MESSAGES
LC_MONETARY
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
.fi

These macros expand to integer constant expressions with distinct values,
suitable for use as the first argument,
.IR category ,
to the
.B setlocale
function.

The locale.h header declares the lconv structure defined as follows:

.nf
char *currency_symbol
char *decimal_point
char frac_digits
char *grouping
char *int_curr_symbol
char int_frac_digits
char int_n_cs_precedes
char int_n_sep_by_space
char int_n_sign_posn
char int_p_cs_precedes
char int_p_sep_by_space
char int_p_sign_posn
char *mon_decimal_point
char *mon_grouping
char *mon_thousands_sep
char *negative_sign
char n_cs_precedes
char n_sep_by_space
char n_sign_posn
char *positive_sign
char p_cs_precedes
char p_sep_by_space
char p_sign_posn
char *thousands_sep
.fi

The members of the
.I lconv
structure are:
.TP 10
currency_symbol
The local currency symbol applicable to the current locale.
.TP
decimal_point
The decimal-point character used to format monetary quantities.
.TP
thousands_sep
The character used to separate groups of digits
before the decimal-point character in formatted monetary quantities.
.TP
grouping
A string whose elements indicate the size of each group of digits in
formatted nonmonetary quantities.
.TP
mon_decimal_point
The decimal-point used to format monetary quantities.
.TP
mon_thousands_sep
The separator for groups of digits before
the decimal-point in formatted monetary quantities.
.TP
mon_grouping
A string whose elements indicate the size of each group of digits in
formatted monetary quantities.
.TP
positive_sign
The string used to indicate a nonnegative-valued formatted monetary
quantity.
.TP
negative_sign
The string used to indicate a negative-valued formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
frac_digits
The number of fractional digits (those after the decimal-point)
to be displayed in a locally formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
p_cs_precedes
Set to 1 or 0 if the currency_symbol respectively precedes or
succeeds the value for a nonnegative locally formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
n_cs_precedes
Set to 1 or 0 if the currency_symbol respectively precedes or
succeeds the value for a negative locally formatted
monetary quantity
.TP
p_sep_by_space
Set to a value indicating the separation of the currency_symbol,
the sign string, and the value for a nonnegative locally formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
n_sep_by_space
Set to a value indicating the separation of the currency_symbol,
the sign string, and the value for a negative locally formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
p_sign_posn
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the positive_sign for
a nonnegative locally formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
n_sign_posn
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the negative_sign for
a negative locally formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
int_curr_symbol
The international currency symbol applicable to the current locale.
.TP
int_frac_digits
The number of fractional digits (those after the decimal-point) to be
displayed in an internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
int_p_cs_precedes
Set to 1 or 0 if the int_curr_symbol respectively precedes or
succeeds the value for a nonnegative internationally formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
int_n_cs_precedes
Set to 1 or 0 if the int_curr_symbol respectively precedes or
succeeds the value for a negative internationally formatted
monetary quantity.
.TP
int_p_sep_by_space
Set to a value indicating the separation of the int_curr_symbol,
the sign string, and the value for a nonnegative internationally
formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
int_n_sep_by_space
Set to a value indicating the separation of the int_curr_symbol,
the sign string, and the value for a negative internationally
formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
int_p_sign_posn
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the positive_sign for
a nonnegative internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.TP
int_n_sign_posn
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the negative_sign for
a negative internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.SH STANDARDS
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 Section 7.11

ISO/IEC 9899:1999 Section 7.11.2.1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR localeconv (3)
.BR setlocale (3)
