.TH setlocale 3
.SH NAME
setlocale - set the current locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <locale.h>

char *setlocale(int category, const char *locale);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR setlocale ()
function is used to set or query the program's current locale.
It can be used to set or query the locale entirely or partially.
If
.I locale
is not NULL,
the program's current locale is modified according to the arguments.
The argument
.I category
determines which parts of the program's current locale
should be modified.

.nf
Category   	Governs
LC_ALL     	All of the locale
LC_COLLATE 	String collation
LC_CTYPE   	Character classification
LC_MONETARY	Formatting of monetary values
LC_NUMERIC 	Formatting of nonmonetary numeric values
LC_TIME    	Formatting of date and time values
.fi

A value of
.B C
for
.I locale
specifies the minimum environment for C translation;
a value of " " for
.I locale
specifies the locale-specific native environment.

At program startup,
.BR setlocale (LC_ALL,"C");
is executed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to the string associated with the specified
.I category
for the new
.I locale
is returned if it can be honored.
A pointer to the string associated with the specified
.I category
for the current locale is returned if
.I locale
is NULL.
The string returned is such that a subsequent call
with that string value and its associated category
will restore that part of the program's locale.
The string pointed to shall not be modified by the program,
but may be overwritten by a subsequent call to the setlocale function.
.SH STANDARDS
ISO/IEC 9899:1999 Section 7.11.1.1 Paragraph 1,2,3,4,6,7,8
.SH SEE ALSO
.B locale.h(3)
